                                                                                                          Design Guide




Layer 3 Leaf & Spine Design and Deployment Guide

The intention of this guide is to provide a systematic and well thought out series of steps to assist the reader with the
design and deployment of a Layer 3 Leaf and Spine (L3LS) topology. The example deployment is based on a design
which meets a set of predefined requirements as listed in the System Requirements section of this guide. The intended
audiences for this guide are network engineers and administrators as well as well as cloud architects. A good working
knowledge of networking principles and specifically the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is assumed.

The guide is broken down into four main sections as noted below, each section begins with a high level overview and
gets progressively more detailed.

    •   System Requirements

    •   Design Overview

    •   Detailed Design

    •   Configuration Examples




arista.com
                                                    Design Guide




Table of Contents
Contents
The Drivers for Layer 3 Leaf + Spine Topologies          5
System Requirements                                      6
Arista Universal Cloud Network (UCN) Architecture        6
Design Overview                                          7
      A Universal Spine                                  7
      Leaf Options                                       7
Detailed Design                                          9
Leaf Design Considerations                               9
      Interfaces and Port Densities                      9
      Transceivers and Cables                            10
      Leaf Uplinks                                       10
      Traffic Load Balancing                             10
      Table Sizes                                        10
      Single-Homed Workloads                             10
      Dual-Homed Workloads                               10
      Data Center Edge Leaf                              11
      Default Gateways and First Hop Routers             11
      Layer-2 Requirements                               11
      Link Layer Discovery Protocol                      11




arista.com                                                     2
                                                                    Design Guide




Spine Design Considerations                                              12
      Characteristics of a Network Spine                                 12
      Key Spine Attributes                                               12
      Internal Switching Fabrics                                         12
             Ethernet-Based Fabric                                       12
             Cell-Based Fabric- With Virtual Output Queuing (VOQ)        13
      Choosing a Spine Platform                                          13
      Hardware Specifications                                            14
Leaf-Spine Interconnects                                                 14
Congestion Management                                                    14
      Subscription Ratios                                                14
      Buffering                                                          15
      Data Center Bridging and Priority Flow Control                     16
BGP Design                                                               16
      EBGP vs. IBGP                                                      16
      Autonomous System Number - Design Options                          17
      Common Spine ASN - Common Leaf ASN                                 17
      Common Spine ASN - Discrete Leaf ASN                               18
      ECMP and BGP Multipath                                             18
      Maximum Routes                                                     19
BGP and Route Convergence                                                19
      Convergence Times                                                  19
      Bidirectional Forwarding Detection                                 19
      Link Fault Signaling (LFS)                                         19
      Tuning BGP                                                         20
             MLAG (Leaf ) Integration with L3LS                          20
             Failure Scenarios                                           20
IP Addressing in the L3LS                                                21
EDGE Connectivity                                                        22




arista.com                                                                     3
                                                     Design Guide




Overlay Networks                                          22
Configuration Examples                                    22
     Base Configuration (All Switches)                    23
     Loopbacks and Management Interfaces                  23
     Point-to-Point Links                                 25
             Spine Switches                               25
             Leaf Switches                                26
     Base Routing & BGP Configuration                     28
             Spine Configuration (BGP)                    28
             Leaf Configuration (BGP)                     29
             Route Advertising (BGP)                      30
     MLAG Configuration - Dual-Homed Compute Leaf         30
     IBGP Configuration for the MLAG Configuration        32
     Server Connectivity (VLANs and Gateways)             32
             Single-Homed Leaf Configuration              32
             Dual-Homed Leaf Configuration                33
List of Acronyms                                          35
References                                                35




arista.com                                                      4
                                                                                                                    Design Guide




The Drivers for Layer 3 Leaf + Spine Topologies
One of the biggest challenges in today’s data centers is the changing traffic patterns and volume of traffic. With the mass adoption
of server virtualization and new application architectures it became readily apparent that the legacy three-tier data center model
was not the optimal design to support heavy East-West traffic flows.

The traditional 3-tier model, comprised of access, aggregation/distribution and a pair of core switches was designed to be fault
tolerant with less emphasis on the proper use of bandwidth. The 3-tier model may still be adequate in a LAN campus setting where
traffic patterns remain largely unchanged however the demands of next generation data centers required a new approach.

Arista’s L3LS leverages a method of interconnecting switches known as a Clos network. The Clos network was originally envisioned
by Charles Clos in 1952 and was based on circuit switching technologies. Arista has pioneered the modern day Clos network by
leveraging Ethernet, IP protocols and high density switching silicon.

Clos designs are non-blocking in nature and provide predictable performance and scaling characteristics making them ideal for
modern datacenter designs. Interconnections between switches in an L3LS are Layer 3 point-to- point links eliminating the need
for traditional Layer 2 loop prevention technologies such spanning-tree or proprietary fabric technologies. Arista’s Clos design is
comprised of Spine and Leaf switches as depicted below.




The role of the spine switches in the Clos topology is to serve as a central backbone or “spine” in which all leafs interconnect. The
spine is expected to robust and non-blocking. Each leaf switch has a Layer 3 (point-to-point) link to each spine; thus the name Layer
3 Leaf and Spine (L3LS).

The real value in a Layer 3 Leaf and Spine topology allows customers and service providers alike to design, build and deploy highly
scalable, stable and resilient data center networks. By leveraging standard IP routing protocols such as BGP or OSPF large flat Layer 2
failure domains can be eliminated. Adopting an IP based fabric eliminates the possibility of vendor lock-in and allows customers the
choice to swap networking components based on their needs, regardless of manufacturer.

Much like the mass adoption of server virtualization technologies customers now have similar choices when it comes to networking.
Network virtualization, through the use of overlay technologies like VXLAN, provides the means to extend Layer 2 domains over the
routed L3LS. Network overlays support the need for Layer 2 adjacencies in the datacenter and can run seamlessly over an L3LS.

In summary, using standards based IP routing protocols to build redundant and resilient L3LS networks coupled with modern
overlay networking technologies provides the best of both worlds and is the foundation for Arista’s Universal Cloud Network (UCN)
Architecture.




arista.com                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                             Design Guide




System Requirements
The table below details a list of typical requirements seen in real data center specifications. The goal of this guide is to ensure all of
these requirements are met as well as demonstrate the necessary system configurations to deploy them. The requirements include
aspects of network and server requirements.

 Table 1: System Requirements
 Spine Redundancy                         There is requirement to have greater than two spine/core switches to share the load.
 Spine Resiliency                         The requirement is to have the ability to remove a spine switch from service or suffer a spine failure
                                          and have it return to service with little or no impact on application traffic flow.
 Scalability                              The network must be able to seamlessly scale to support future bandwidth requirements.
 Non-Blocking                             Design must support the ability to implement leaf-spine subscription ratios based on specific
                                          application requirements.
 Congestion Avoidance                     Design must have the capability to absorb peak traffic loads without losing packets.
                                          Network must have mechanisms to ensure traffic can be prioritized and queued if necessary to
                                          eliminate the potential of packet loss.
 Active/Active Server Connectivity        Each server to have active/active connections, one to a primary leaf switch and one to secondary
                                          leaf switch.
 Open Standards                           The network must support open standards based protocols, no vendor proprietary protocols or
                                          features will be used.
 Edge Connectivity                        Network design to include connectivity into the LAN / WAN environment.
 Network Address Translation              Native server IP’s must be hidden from the outside network i.e.) Network Address Translation (NAT)
                                          but be supported at the network edge.
 Traffic Engineering                      Mechanisms to ensure traffic can be prioritized and or dropped based on policies.


Arista Universal Cloud Network (UCN) Architecture
The system requirements outlined in the previous section can be met with Arista’s Universal Cloud Network (UCN) Architecture.
The diagram in Figure 1 depicts the components that make up this architecture. For a comprehensive overview of Arista’s UCN
architecture you can download the Arista Universal Cloud Network Design Guide at http://www.arista.com/assets/data/pdf/
DesignGuides/Arista-Universal-Cloud-Network-Design.pdf

The focus of this guide is the Layer 3 Leaf and Spine (L3LS) and specifically the design, components and configuration details
required to build, test and deploy it.




                               Figure 1: Arista’s Universal Cloud Network (UCN) Architecture




arista.com                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                     Design Guide




Design Overview
The Layer 3 Leaf and Spine (L3LS) topology is the foundation of Arista’s Universal Cloud Network Architecture. At a high level the
Layer 3 Leaf Spine (L3LS) is simply a collapsed 2-Tier topology comprised of spine and leaf switches. This simple design, when
coupled with the advancements in chip technology, a modern operating system and an Open standards approach, provides
significant performance and operational improvements.

One of the main advantages of the L3LS design is that the spine can be easily scaled up or down to meet the requirements of small
and mid-sized enterprises or up to meet the needs of the largest cloud providers. Spine widths can be from 2 to 128 nodes and
supports up to 128-Way ECMP.

By adopting a merchant silicon approach to switch design architects are now able to design networks that have predictable traffic
patterns, low latency, minimal oversubscription and the flexibility to scale without changing the overall architecture. Legacy designs
often incorporated more than two tiers to overcome density and oversubscription limitations.

Leaf and spine switches are interconnected with routed point-to-point links and each leaf has at least one connection to each spine.
Spine switches no longer have a direct dependency on one another, another benefit to the design. BGP, OSPF or ISIS can be used as
the routing protocol and Equal Cost Multi Path (ECMP) is used to distribute traffic evenly amongst the individual spine switches, this
load sharing behavior is inherent to the design.

A Universal Spine
Arista believes the data center network spine should be universal in nature. What this means is that by using standard protocols and
design methods coupled with robust hardware components the data center spine can be leveraged throughout the campus. The
concept behind Arista’s Universal Spine is:

    • Build a spine that meets the needs of all Data Centers

    • Reliable and simple to operate

    • Interoperate with any and all vendors equipment, leaf switches, firewalls, Application Delivery Controllers etc.

A four-node spine is depicted in Figure 2 and will be used as the working example for this guide.




                 Figure 2: Arista Layer 3 Leaf & Spine (L3LS)
Leaf Options
Leaf switches ensure compute, storage and other workloads get the necessary connectivity and bandwidth dictated by the
applications they serve. In the past the inter-connections between the leaf and spine switches have been heavily oversubscribed,
careful consideration needs to be taken to ensure the appropriate amount of bandwidth is provisioned. With greater server
densities, both virtual and physical, port densities and table sizes are another consideration that need to be taken into account when
selecting platforms.




arista.com                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                 Design Guide




From a leaf design perspective there are three main configurations that need to be considered, designs that support Single-Homed
workloads, Dual-Homed workloads as well as a workload such as IP Storage that may benefit from a deep buffer solution such as a
Storage Leaf.




                              Figure 3: Single-Homed and Dual-Homed Leaf Configurations
Dual-homed systems would leverage a MLAG (Multi-Chassis Link Aggregation) configuration. The MLAG configuration supports the
requirement for active/active server connectivity with switch level redundancy at the Top of Rack (ToR).

Other things to consider when making design decisions and platform selections are requirements such as Low Latency, VXLAN
Bridging, VXLAN Routing as well as VXLAN Bridging / Routing with MLAG.




    Figure 4: Storage, Services and Internet DMZ Leaf Configurations
Dedicated Storage Leafs can also be provisioned to ensure IP based storage systems can endure the sustained traffic bursts and
heavy incast events. In this design a deep buffer switch would be utilized near the storage system to support the requirements.
Deep buffers ensure fairness to all flows during periods of moderate and heavy congestion.




    Figure 5: Management, Data Center Interconnect and IP Peering Leaf Configurations




arista.com                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                       Design Guide




Regardless of the leaf configuration, single-homed, dual-home or otherwise, the leaf to spine connectivity is consistent ensuring
a common configuration throughout the fabric. Arista has a number of spine and leaf platforms to choose from that meet a broad
range of requirements. A more detailed look at the Arista Cloud Network Portfolio can be found at http://www.arista.com/en/
products/switches.

Detailed Design
The L3LS has a number of elements that need to be considered during the detailed design. At a high level this work can be broken
down into Leaf, Spine, Interconnect and BGP Design.

The diagram below begins to reveal some of the finer points of the Layer 3 Leaf and Spine design. For the purpose of this exercise
some assumptions will be made about many of these details however it will be noted and explained as to how and why these design
choices could apply to network planning. The stated system requirements will also guide our decision-making. The design includes
100G between leaf and spine, though 40G is also an option depending on requirements.




                  Figure 6: Layer 3 Leaf/Spine with ECMP (4-Way Spine)
Leaf Design Considerations
Application and server requirements dictate leaf design choices and platform selection. The Leaf Design section is broken as follows:
Interfaces and Port Densities, Subscription Ratios, Equal Cost Multi-Path routing, Table Sizes, Single and Dual-Home Workloads, Layer
2 Requirements and Transceivers and Cabling.

Interfaces and Port Densities
One of the first things that need to be considered when beginning design work is what type of workload will be supported and how
many workloads will need to be scaled to. Getting detailed answers to these questions upfront is paramount to making good design
decisions.

There are a number of interface choices for physical server connectivity today and the list is growing. Below is a list of interfaces that
require consideration. The list is not a comprehensive of all interface types but focuses on short-range optics commonly seen with
the data center.

    • Small Form-factor Pluggable (SFP): 1GBASE-T, 1GBASE-SX, 10GBASE-T, 10GBASE-SR

    • Quad Small Form-factor Pluggable (QSFP): 40GBASE-SR

    • Multi Speed Ports (MXP): 10, 40 & 100G

    • QSFP100: 25GBASE-CR, 50GBASE-CR, 100GBASE-SR4




arista.com                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                      Design Guide




Teams outside of the network-engineering group may drive interface requirements at the end of the day. With traditional
DC networks this was less of a concern however new interface types and speeds have changed several things. The first one
being parallel lanes and the second being cabling types such as MTP, in both cases it requires a good understanding of optical
requirements, specifically 40G but also 25G, 50G and 100G.

There are also situations where retrofitting or upgrading and existing data center network is necessary, which leaves engineers in a
situation where they are forced to adopt existing cabling plants.

The quantity of servers within each rack and the anticipated growth rate will need to be documented. This will dictate the switch
port density required. Arista has a broad range of platforms in densities from 32x10GBASE-T ports (with 4x40G uplinks) in a 1RU
design all the way to 64x100G ports in a 2RU leaf platform, in addition to numerous others.

Transceivers and Cables
As with any network design transceiver and cabling types need to be determined up front. A deep dive on cabling and transceiver
selection is beyond the scope of this guide however more information can found at https://www.arista.com/en/products/
transceivers-cables.

Connections between leaf and spine may be 40G or 100G. For this design exercise 100G uplinks have already been determined
however the cabling/media has not. If runs are short enough Twinax or Direct Attached Cables can be used and are very cost
effective. Active Optical Cables (AOC) are another good economical choice, both of these cable types have integrated QSFP100
transceivers. For an existing Multi-Mode (MM) or Single-Mode (SM) fiber plant there are a number of choices. For this design guide a
MM plant will be used.

Leaf Uplinks
The type and number of uplinks required at the leaf switch is dictated by the bandwidth and spine redundancy/resiliency needed.
With a four-node spine for example a minimum of four 100G uplinks would be utilized.

Traffic Load Balancing
Load balancing traffic over multiple links is the cornerstone for achieving efficiency in a modern data center network. Equal Cost
Multi-Path (ECMP) is a routing strategy where next-hop packet forwarding to a single destination can occur over multiple “Best
Paths”. In a Layer 3 Leaf and Spine topology all leaf switches are directly connected to every spine and as such a network with a four-
way spine would provide four paths for a leaf switch to load-balance traffic amongst. To utilize all paths routes to all spines must tie
for top place when calculating routing metrics. The maximum-paths feature, covered in more detail below, enables ECMP routing.

Table Sizes
With the adoption of virtualization technologies there has been an explosion of virtual machines on the network. In a somewhat
silent manner these virtual machines have increased the MAC addresses count on the network significantly. Packet processors have
finite resources that need to be considered during the design. Moving from flat layer 2 networks to a routed L3LS mitigates much
of this concern, as MAC addresses are now locally significant and contained at the leaf. It is still important to understand the scaling
requirements for MAC address, ARP and route tables in order to make the appropriate platform selections.

Single-Homed Workloads
Certain applications are designed in a fault tolerant manner to support hosts joining and leaving the workload dynamically. Such
workloads can be attached to a single leaf and rely on the underlying application for redundancy rather than the network. Single-
homed hosts can be connected to the same leaf switches as dual- homed workloads as long as sufficient bandwidth is provisioned
on the MLAG peer link.

Dual-Homed Workloads
Another requirement for this design includes network level fault tolerance for server connectivity. Network level fault tolerance is
the ability for a workload to survive a single switch failure (at the rack level) without impacting host connectivity and ultimately




arista.com                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                     Design Guide




application availability. Generally speaking network level fault tolerance assumes active/active server connectivity.

To support these requirements a Dual-Home Leaf Configuration utilizing MLAG will be used. MLAG is standards based and is
interoperable with any device that supports the Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) / 802.3ad specification. This configuration
supports fault tolerance and active/active load sharing for physical and virtual servers.

IP Peering Leaf
The IP Peering Leaf provides connectivity to resources outside of the Leaf and Spine topology. This may include services such as
routers, firewalls, load balancers and other resources. Although the IP Peering Leaf is deployed in a similar manner as other leafs
switches, traffic traversing the IP Peering Leaf is typically considered to be North-South traffic rather than East-West. The IP Peering
Leaf requires specific consideration as it is often connected to upstream routers at a fraction of speeds of the network spine. For
example, a typical leaf-spine interconnect would be running at 100G and an IP Peering Leaf could be connected to the outside world
at 1 or 10G. This speed change needs to be understood as higher speed links can easily overwhelm lower speed links, especially
during burst events. Routing scale and features also need to be taken into account.

The IP Peering Leaf can also be leveraged as the peering point with external providers and is capable of carrying Internet scale
routing tables. Large routing tables and high performance with low power per port and high density enable the Arista 7500
series and 7280 series to fit seamlessly into the role of 100G IP peering platforms. These platforms also support various tunneling
technologies including MPLS, VxLAN, GRE and MPLSoGRE along with programmatic traffic steering options that allowing engineers
to optimally route the content.

Default Gateways and First Hop Routers
The Arista Data Center design uses an Anycast default gateway insertion technique known as Virtual Address Resolution Protocol
or VARP. On a MLAG pair both switches coordinate the advertisement of an identical MAC and IP address (the VARP address) for
the default gateway on each segment. In this model the host can send traffic on a packet-by-packet or flow-by-flow basis to either
switch. Each default gateway can receive and service the request making a first hop intelligent routing decision without traversing
the peer link. An advantage to using VARP is that there is no control protocol or messaging as utilized in VRRP. This significantly
reduces the burden on switch CPUs, as the CPU must process control packets.

Layer-2 Requirements
Another common requirement for many data centers is the need to provide Layer 2 adjacencies between compute nodes located
in different racks and connected to separate switches. Many applications, particularly in the enterprise space, require a common/
shared subnet between application servers. This is not a new or unique problem for data centers however historically the solution
has always been somewhat tough to solve in a low risk cost effective manner. The Virtual eXtensible LAN (VXLAN) protocol is the
answer to solving this problem in modern data center design. Deploying an overlay using VXLAN on top of a Layer 3 Leaf and Spine
(L3LS) topology ensures L2 requirements can be satisfied while still meeting other specific requirements, such as high availability,
that the L3LS design provides.

VXLAN Design & Deployment details are not part of this guide at this time, that being said Arista has a broad range of VXLAN
capable switches which can be utilized in a L3LS design.

Link Layer Discovery Protocol
The Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) is a vendor-neutral link layer protocol used by devices for advertising their identity,
capabilities, and neighbors on a local area network.

As data centers become more automated LLDP is being leveraged by many applications as a way to automatically learn about
adjacent devices. Adjacent is a key word as LLDP only works between devices that are connected at layer two, i.e. on the same
physical segment and in a common VLAN.

At the network level LLDP becomes important when integrating with provisioning systems such as OpenStack and VMware. Through




arista.com                                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                                     Design Guide




LLDP, switches are able to learn details about connected devices such physical / virtual machines, hypervisors as well as neighboring
switches. As an example of this type of integration, when VM instances are created on compute nodes the Ethernet trunk port
between the leaf switch and compute node can be automatically configured to allow the required VLANs, this is enabled by using
information learned by LLDP.

The use of LLDP should be considered and reviewed with virtualization and cloud architects during the design activities.

Spine Design Considerations
Characteristics of a Network Spine
As a subset of the initial requirements presented in this guide the network spine requires careful consideration. The network spine is
expected to be robust and support all types of workloads at both low and peak loads. A proper spine design should be able to scale
as the business grows without the need for forklift upgrades and have a 5+ year lifespan. Last but not least the spine should provide
deep visibility into switch performance data while at the same time be easy to update and automate.

Key Spine Attributes
There are also several more specific attributes that require consideration. In larger networks or networks built with chassis based
systems the design needs to take into consideration the Internal Switching Fabric itself. Switching fabrics can be broken down
into two main categories, Ethernet/Flow-Based and Cell-Based. Much the same as leaf design, queuing and buffering are also
considerations as is the tolerance level to accept packet loss in the network. Table sizes, power and density as well as cost are always
considerations as well. Using open standards based protocols are also key attributes of any good design.

Internet Switching Fabrics
In chassis based systems (as well as multi-chip systems) there needs to be a way to connect front panel ports from one linecard
to ports on other linecards. These connections are made behind the scenes via specific fabric packet processors or other types of
internal switching chips. The key take away here is that there is more than one type of “internal switching fabric” and it is important
to understand the differences when making spine design decisions.




                 Figure 7: Internal Switching Fabric
Ethernet-Based Fabric
The first type of fabric is known as an Ethernet-Based fabric. As the name might suggest an Ethernet-Based fabric is largely bound
by the rules of Ethernet. Consider a single chip as a switch connecting to other chips with patch cables all using Ethernet, an internal
Clos design
Within an Ethernet-based design there are limits to the efficiency that can be achieved. In general 80-90% efficiency is deemed
achievable using bandwidth aware hashing and Dynamic Load Balancing (DLB) techniques on the linecard to fabric connections.




arista.com                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                      Design Guide




                 Figure 8: Ethernet-Based Fabric
Cell-Based Fabric - With Virtual Output Queuing (VOQ)
Cell based architectures are quite different as they are not bound by the rules of Ethernet on the switch backplane (the front panel
port to fabric connections). A cell-based fabric takes a packet and breaks it apart into evenly sized cells before evenly “spraying”
across all fabric modules. This spraying action has a number of positive attributes making for a very efficient internal switching fabric
with an even balance of flows to each forwarding engine. Cell- based fabrics are considered to be 100% efficient irrespective of the
traffic pattern.

Because the cell-based fabric does not utilize Ethernet it is inherently good at dealing with mixed speeds. A cell- based fabric is not
concerned with the front panel connection speeds making mixing and matching 100M, 1G, 10G, 25G, 40G, 50G and 100G of little
concern. Adding Advanced Queuing Credit based schedulers with Virtual Output Queues (VOQs) and deep buffers (for congestion
handling) to a cell-based platform provides for a lossless based system that deserves consideration.

Cell based systems will give you more predictable performance under moderate to heavy load, the addition of Virtual Output Queue
(VOQ) architectures will also help protect against packet loss during congestion. These two capabilities coupled with a deep buffer
platform all but guarantee the lossless delivery of packets in a congested network.




                  Figure 9: Cell-Based Fabric with VOQ
Choosing a Spine Platform
Like many design choices it comes down to having good data to work with. Some conditions to consider are: low loads, heavy
loads, loads during failure conditions (loss of spine, or two) and loads during maintenance windows when a spine may be taken
out of service. Ideally having good baselines is a good start, for net new builds this often comes down to modeling and predicated
application demands. A proper capacity-planning program is essential to day two operations, ensuring your design can absorb or
scale to meet future demands.




arista.com                                                                                                                            13
                                                                                                                      Design Guide




Here are some general rules of thumb that can help with the decision-making if you don’t have enough data up front.

    • In typical networks the first collision is seen at ~30% utilization;

    • Excessive collisions begin to happen at around ~70% utilization; and

    • Networks begin to collapse above ~70% utilization if something isn’t done.

If you can’t get a handle on the current and/or future design details, cell based large buffer systems are a catch all that makes the
most sense when trying to minimize risk.

Hardware Specifications
The level of redundancy built in the spine as a whole (all switches in the spine) will dictate the level of redundancy required at the
platform level. A key consideration is that of supervisor redundancy. In a multi-spine design (three or more switches) the spines
ability to lose a node without adversely impacting performance increases. By and large, multi-spine designs are configured to use a
single supervisor.

Leaf-Spine Interconnects
All leaf switches are directly connected to all spine switches through fiber optic or copper cabling. In an L3LS topology all of these
interconnections are routed links. These routed interconnects can be designed as discrete Point-to-Point links or as Port-Channels.
There are pros and cons to each design, discrete point-to-point links are most common configuration and will be the focus of this
guide. Leaf-Spine interconnects require careful consideration to ensure uplinks are not over-subscribed. Subscription ratios can be
engineered (as discussed in the Leaf Design section of this document) to ensure uplinks are properly sized to prevent congestion
and packet loss. Leaf-Spine Interconnects can be 10G, 40G or 100G interfaces.




                   Figure 10: Routed Point-to-Point links

Congestion Management
Subscription Ratios
Subscription and oversubscription ratios are expressed as a ratio of downlink to uplink capacity. An example of this would be a 48
Port 10G switch with four 40G uplinks. In this scenario the oversubscription ratio would be 480G:160G or 3:1. Oversubscription can
exist in the North-South direction (traffic entering/leaving a data center) as well as East-West (traffic between devices in the data
center).

For this design servers/workloads are attaching to the leaf at 1/10/25/50G. This is important because the bandwidth each server
demands is aggregated when it comes to upstream connectivity i.e. the bandwidth consumed on the uplinks. Even though
it’s possible to have a wirespeed switch it does not mean servers will not encounter congestion. Server virtualization further
compounds this problem as virtual machines (workloads) can pop up anywhere at anytime with no need for physical cabling. To
ensure servers, both physical and virtual, do not suffer packet loss due to congestion, subscription ratios need to be taken into




arista.com                                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                                       Design Guide




consideration. Below are some general rules of thumb when it comes to subscription ratios.

    • Subscription-ratio of 1:1 for racks hosting IP Storage
    • Subscription-ratio of 3:1 for General computing racks
    • Subscription-ratio of 6:1 for racks containing Network services
    • Subscription-ratio of 1:1 for IP Peering (match external BW with Spine BW)

When calculating subscription ratios it is important to know a little more about the quantity of servers (both virtual and physical)
connecting to leaf switches as well as the expected bandwidth requirements. With 48 1/10G ports, there is a maximum of 480G
of data coming into (ingress) and out (egress) of the switch. Using a subscription ratio of 3:1 can determine the uplink capacity
required, in this example 480G / 3 = 160G. A switch with four 40G uplinks can meet this requirement (4x40G = 160G).

With the introduction of 100G uplinks the oversubscription level can be reduced in the 1/10G general computing deployment to
1.2:1. In this example, 48 1/10G host facing ports and at least 4 100G uplinks towards the spine, the oversubscription is 1.2:1 (480G /
1.2 = 400G).

Some common examples of host facing port to uplink ratios are outlined in the table below with options for 1/10G, 25G and 50G.
 Host Ports                        Uplinks                            Over-Subscription                 Example Hardware
                                                                                                        Configuration
 48 1/10G                          4 40G                              3:1                               48 1/10G (SFP+ or Copper)
                                                                                                        + 6 40G QSFP ports
 48 1/10G                          4 100G                             1.2:1                             48 1/10G (SFP+ or Copper)
                                                                                                        + 6 100G QSFP100 ports
 48 1/10G                          6 100G                             1:1                               48 1/10G (SFP+ or Copper)
                                                                                                        + 6 100G QSFP100 ports
 96 25G [48 50G]                   8 100G                             3:1                               96 25G [48 50G]
                                                                                                        (24 QSFP100)
                                                                                                        + 8 100G QSFP100 ports

Buffering
In general, congestion management and buffering does not seem to be well understood when it comes to data center networks. In
reality, any network can experience congestion, and when it does buffers are utilized in an effort to avoid dropping packets. While
a well thought out leaf and spine design minimizes oversubscription, services such as dedicated IP storage systems are prone to
receiving large amounts of incast traffic. These types of traffic patterns have the potential to create bottlenecks.

Incast or TCP incast is a many to one communication pattern that is most commonly seen in environments that have adopted IP
based storage as well as High Performance Computing applications as such as Hadoop. Incast can occur in different scenarios but a
simple example is one where many hosts request data from a single server simultaneously. Imagine a server connected at 10G trying
to serve 40G of data from 1000 users, this is a many to one relationship. Sustained traffic flows that exceed the capacity of a single
link can cause network buffers to overflow causing the switch to drop packets.

For a detailed explanation on the benefits of buffers in the data center see the following white paper titled Why Big Data Needs Big
Buffer Switches http://www.arista.com/assets/data/pdf/Whitepapers/BigDataBigBuffers-WP.pdf

When deep buffer systems are required Arista recommends our 7280 or 7500 series switches. In the 7500 and 7280 series systems,
each port is capable of providing up to 50ms of packet buffering.

The implementation of a Leaf and Spine architecture with smaller buffers will perform well in a network that does not experience
congestion. This makes it critically important to understand the performance characteristics required prior to making product
decisions. Performing a good baseline analysis of traffic flows, particularly during periods of high utilization, will ensure your design
meets your requirements.




arista.com                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                       Design Guide




Data Center Bridging and Priority Flow Control
Data Center Bridging (DCB) and Priority Flow Control (PFC) are two additional protocols used to assist with the lossless delivery of
Ethernet.

DCB has two important features: Data Center Bridging Exchange (DCBX) and Priority Flow Control (PFC). EOS uses the Link Layer
Discovery Protocol (LLDP) and the Data Center Bridging Capability Exchange (DCBX) protocol to help automate the configuration of
Data Center Bridging (DCB) parameters, including the Priority-Based Flow Control (PFC) standard, which enables end-to-end flow-
control.

As an example, these features enable a switch to recognize when it is connected to an iSCSI device and automatically configure the
switch link parameters (such as PFC) to provide optimal support for that device. DCBX can be used to prioritize the handling of iSCSI
traffic to help ensure that packets are not dropped or delayed.

PFC enables switches to implement flow-control measures for multiple classes of traffic. Switches and edge devices slow down
traffic that causes congestion and allow other traffic on the same port to pass without restriction. Arista switches can drop less
important traffic and tell other switches to pause specific traffic classes so that critical data is not dropped. This Quality of Service
(QoS) capability eases congestion by ensuring that critical I/O (in the storage example) is not disrupted or corrupted and that other
non-storage traffic that is tolerant of loss may be dropped.

BGP Design
In a short time the Border Gateway Protocol has become the routing protocol of choice for large data center and cloud scale
networks. During this time much has been learned about the design and operations of these networks and the benefits are now
being realized by organizations of all sizes. Below are a number of the key benefits BGP has over other routing protocols.

    • Extensive Multi-Vendor interoperability

    • Native Traffic Engineering (TE) capabilities

    • Minimized information flooding, when compared to linkstate protocols

    • Reliance on TCP rather than adjacency forming

    • Reduced complexity and simplified troubleshooting

    • Mature and proven stability at scale

EBGP vs. IBGP
Arista recommends using the exterior Border Gateway Protocol (eBGP) in a Layer 3 Leaf and Spine design. There are number
of reasons for this choice but one of the more compelling reasons is simplicity, particularly when configuring load sharing (via
ECMP) which is one of the main design goals of the L3LS. Using eBGP ensures all routes/paths are utilized with the least amount of
complexity and fewest steps to configure.

In contrast an iBGP design would require additional considerations to achieve this behavior. An iBGP design would require all
switches in the L3LS to peer with every other device in the network. The use of route reflectors could reduce this burden however
the default route reflection behavior introduces additional complexity. By default, route reflectors will only reflect the best prefix,
which hampers the ability to perform load sharing. To work around the default route reflector behavior the BGP ‘AddPath’ feature
could be used. AddPath supports the advertisement of multiple paths for the same prefix through a single peering session without
the new paths replacing previously learned ones; this is extra work for little return.

Although an iBGP implementation is technically feasible using eBGP allows for a simpler less complex design that is easier to
troubleshoot. There is however a corner case where iBGP is still used in this design, this scenario is covered in the BGP Leaf Design
section.




arista.com                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                     Design Guide




Autonomous System Number - Design Options
BGP supports several designs when assigning Autonomous System Numbers (ASN) in a L3LS topology. For this design a Common
(shared) ASN will be assigned to the Spine nodes and another ASN to the Leaf nodes. For completeness a second option will be
reviewed, Common Spine ASN and discrete Leaf ASNs however this guide will not cover the configuration details.

To start, a quick review of ASN numbering. IANA has reserved, for Private Use, a contiguous block of 1023 Autonomous System
numbers from the 16-bit Autonomous System Numbers registry, 64512 to 65534. IANA has also reserved for Private Use a contiguous
block of 94,967,295 Autonomous System numbers from the 32-bit (4 Byte) ASN registry, namely 4200000000 - 4294967294. These
reservations have been documented in the IANA “Autonomous System (AS) Numbers” registry [IANA.AS].

This guide will use the private AS numbers between 64512 through 65535.

Common Spine ASN - Common Leaf ASN
As the name implies the Common Spine ASN - Common Leaf ASN design uses a single ASN for all spine nodes and another ASN for
all leaf nodes. This design has a number of advantages including better use of available 16 bit ASNs and the ability to have a more
standard leaf switch configuration. For larger customers preserving 16 bit ASNs reduces the requirement to move to 32 bit ASNs,
which all vendors may not support yet.

Having a common leaf configuration simplifies deployment, operations and automation tasks.

When using a common ASN for all leaf switches the rules of BGP need to be reviewed. As a rule an eBGP neighbor, in this case a
leaf switch will ignore an update from a neighbor if its local ASN (the leafs ASN) appears in the path (the AS_PATH). In other words
the update would be denied on ingress and not be considered for installation in the Routing Information Base (RIB), this is a loop
prevention mechanism and is normally desirable. In an isolated environment such as a data center the network topology is well
understood, the allowas-in feature was developed for conditions like this.

The allowas-in feature permits the switch to “allow” the advertisement of prefixes that contain duplicate autonomous system
numbers. This command programs the switch to ignore its ASN in the AS path of routes and allows the entry(s) to be installed into
the RIB. The allow-as in features allows us to have a common ASN for all leaf switches. Loop prevention is still at work in the spine
due to the spine switches residing in a common AS; allowas-in is not configured on the spine switches.




                 Figure 11: Common Spine - Common Leaf ASN




arista.com                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                        Design Guide




Common Spine ASN - Discrete Leaf ASN
The Common Spine ASN - Discrete Leaf ASN design uses a single ASN for all spine nodes and discrete ASNs for each leaf nodes.

This design has a number of advantages such as;

    • Each rack can now be identified by its ASN

    • Traceroute and bgp commands will show discrete AS making troubleshooting easier

    • Uses inherent BGP loop prevention mechanisms and therefore does not require the allowas-in feature

    • Unique AS numbers help troubleshooting and don’t require flexing the EBGP path selection algorithm with allowas-in

    Large Scale (where 1023 ASNs is not enough)
    One thing to keep in mind if choosing to deploy discrete ASNs at the leaf is that there are a fixed number of ASN available, that
    being 1023 (64512 to 65534). This is likely not a concern for most customers but it is important to know. Arista EOS does support
    4-byte ASNs to avoid this scaling limitation of 2-byte ASNs. Another difference to consider is that having discrete ASN means
    less of a common configuration.




                             Figure 12: Common Spine Common Leaf ASN

ECMP and BGP Multipath
Leveraging Equal Cost Multi-Path (ECMP) routing is the cornerstone for achieving efficiency in a modern data center network.
To utilize all available paths, leaf and spine switches must first process routing updates with common metrics. Under normal
circumstances there can only be one winner. By using the maximum-paths feature routes that have “tied” for top place will be added
to the Forwarding Information Base (FIB).

The maximum-paths command controls the maximum number of parallel eBGP routes that the switch supports. The default
maximum is one route. The command provides an ECMP (equal cost multiple paths) parameter that controls the number of equal-
cost paths that the switch stores in the routing table for each route.

Equal Cost Multi Path (ECMP) will also be used to ensure an even distribution of traffic flows throughout the fabric.

In a four-way spine design the maximum paths would be four and the ecmp choices would also be four. Below is an example of the
command.

  !
  switch01(config-router-bgp)# maximum-paths 4 ecmp 4
  !




arista.com                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                       Design Guide




Maximum Routes
The neighbor maximum-routes command configures the maximum number of BGP routes the switch will accept from a specified
neighbor. The switch disables peering with the neighbor when this number is exceeded.

  !
  switch01(config-router-bgp) # neighbor 10.10.1.10 maximum-routes 12000
  !

BGP and Route Convergence
Convergence Times
One of the most commonly asked questions when running BGP in the data center is, “How fast can the network converge during a
link or peer failure?”

The need for fast failure detection in a L3LS design is critical to ensure failures are detected as quickly as possible. EOS’s default
behavior is to immediately tear down an eBGP neighbor adjacency when a link goes down. In turn, link-down events instantly
trigger BGP changes. This ability to rapidly detect and act on unreachable peers results in sub-second (~100ms) removal of eBGP
peers and subsequent withdrawal of the associated routes.

In a modern data center it is necessary to have the ability to rapidly detect and remove peers as a catch all for a number of common
conditions that can exist in any topology. Scenarios such as asymmetric routing where sending traffic flows are taking different
paths than returning traffic flows. A condition such as this can result in lengthy re-convergence in specific scenarios if not managed
correctly. Having the switch immediately tear down these connections allows for predictable network behavior and optimal network
convergence times.

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) is a simple mechanism that detects if a connection between adjacent systems is up,
allowing it to quickly detect failure of any element in the connection. It does not operate independently, but as an aide to routing
protocols. The routing protocols are responsible for neighbor detection, and create BFD sessions with neighbors by requesting
failure monitoring from BFD. Once a BFD session is established with a neighbor, BFD exchanges control packets to verify connectivity
and inform the requesting protocol of failure if a specified number of successive packets are not received. The requesting protocol is
then responsible for responding to the loss of connectivity.

Routing protocols using BFD for failure detection continue to operate normally when BFD is enabled, including the exchange of
hello packets. The basic behavior of BFD is defined in RFC 5880.

In networks without data link signaling, connection failures are usually detected by the hello mechanisms of routing protocols.
Detection can take over a second and reducing detection time by increasing the rate at which hello packets are exchanged can
create an excessive burden on the participating CPUs. BFD is a low-overhead, protocol-independent mechanism, which adjacent
systems can use for faster detection of faults in the path between them.

As a rule Arista does not recommend BFD on directly connected point-to-point links where data signaling exists. BFD is strictly a
failure-detection mechanism and does not discover neighbors or reroute traffic. In this application EOS’s default behavior performs
optimally, this is in part due to Link Fault Signaling (LFS), which is inherent in the 10/40/100G Ethernet standard.

Link Fault Signaling (LFS)
The rapid detection of link failures is in part due to the Link Fault Signaling (LFS) mechanism in the 10/40/100G standard. LFS has
provided a whole new meaning to connectivity state and provides a low-level health checker that performs ‘local-fault’ and ‘remote-
fault’ signaling. LFS signaling behaves much like BFD but at a lower layer, because of this BFD is an added complexity with no
benefit.




arista.com                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                        Design Guide




The Link Fault Signaling mechanism lives below the MAC layer in a sublayer called the Reconciliation Sublayer or RS. Its job is to
monitor the status between a local RS and a remote RS and perform link status notification; LFS relies on the Sub layers at the PHY
level to detect the faults that render a link unreliable.

At the end of the day a RS reports the fault status of a link, the fault status could be a Local Fault (LF) or a Remote Fault (RF). Upper
layer protocols can take action on this status.

    • Local Fault indicates a fault detected on the receive data path

    • Remote Fault indicates a fault on the transmit path

Tuning BGP
This section of the guide is reserved for specific parameters that can be configured to tune the L3LS. It is important to understand
your particular deployment to determine if tuning will be beneficial in your environment.

MLAG (Leaf) Integration with L3LS
To support the requirement of dual-homed active/active server connectivity MLAG will be used at leaf layer using a Dual-Homed
Compute Leaf configuration. A standard MLAG configuration is used with a couple of additions to support eBGP peering to the spine
as well as iBGP peering between the MLAG peers. For completeness the standard MLAG configuration is covered in the configuration
examples section of this guide.

When integrating a MLAG Leaf configuration into a Layer 3 Leaf Spine, iBGP peering is recommend between the MLAG peers. The
reason for the peering is due to specific failure conditions that the design must take into consideration. In normal operation paths
learned via eBGP (leaf to spine uplinks) will always be preferred over paths learned via iBGP (given other tie-breaker criteria are
equal) this is desirable.

Failure Scenarios
During specific failure conditions routes learned via iBGP will come into effect, consider the following failure scenario (illustrated in
Figure 13 below):

Node1 is communicating with Node2. Leaf-1 and Leaf-2 are MLAG peers and are configured to run VARP to provide an active/active
redundant first hop gateway for Node1, but they are not BGP peers. On Leaf-1, both of its uplinks have failed. While both Spine-1 and
Spine-2 would certainly notice this failure and reconverge, some things will not be affected, such as:

    • MLAG running between Leaf-1 and Leaf-2 would not notice any change, and continue functioning as normal, which in turn
    means that the port-channel between Node1 and Leaf-1/Leaf-2 would remain up and function as normal, VARP would also
    continue to function as normal.

    • This is important because traffic leaving Node1 that gets hashed to Leaf-2, which would be fine, but any traffic hashed to Leaf-
    1 would effectively be black holed.




                             Figure 13: MLAG Integration with L3LS (without iBGP peering)




arista.com                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                      Design Guide




Peering Leaf-1 and Leaf-2 alleviates this problem. In the same failure scenario (Figure 14 below) with an iBGP peering between Leaf-1
and Leaf-2, any traffic hashed to Leaf-1 would follow the remaining route pointing to Leaf-2 and then be ECMP-routed to the spine.
During normal operation the path through the peering leaf switch is less desirable (a longer path) than those directly connected to
the spine alleviating any suboptimal path through Leaf-2.




                Figure 14: MLAG Integration with L3LS (with iBGP Peering)

IP Addressing in the L3LS
Like any network design IP addressing and logical networks need to be allocated and assigned. It is nearly impossible to give
definitive answers for the network design however the examples in this guide will help. As of writing the examples only take into
account IPv4 addressing.

Addressing can be broken down into the following sections: Base Prefix, Point-to-Point Networks, Loopback and Management
Networks, Server / Workload addressing and Network Address Translation (NAT) addresses.

Base Prefixes
For an optimal addressing plan prefixes within the L3LS should strive to have a common base prefix or set of prefixes. As an example
a point-to-point link would have a specific prefix for each localized network i.e. 10.10.0.0/30. In a L3LS with one hundred point-to-
point links all prefixes could be summarized by a base prefix of 10.10.0.0/24.

Point-to-Point Networks
Depending on the size of the data center a L3LS may have hundreds of point-to-point links. Each leaf has a point- to-point network
between itself and each spine. When carving up address space for these links be sure to strike the right balance between address
conservation and leaving room for the unknown. Using a /31 mask will work as will a /30, your personal circumstance will dictate
your decision.

Server / Workload Addressing
Server and other workloads need addresses too. When deploying a native L3LS (i.e. No Overlay network) each Leaf hosts a number
of networks/prefixes for the local workloads. As a rule a VLAN will be associated with each prefix as well as a local gateway. Each leaf
may have upwards of ten VLAN/prefixes and often more. When creating your address plan try to keep a base prefix in mind.

Loopback and Management Interfaces
All switches with the L3LS require a least one loopback address, loopbacks use a /32 mask. Loopbacks are not dependent on link
state and therefore are always up making them excellent for troubleshooting. Management Interfaces also require IP addresses as
well.




arista.com                                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                                     Design Guide




Network Address Translation (NAT)
To hide internal data center addressing or to host applications on publicly routable IP addresses NAT may be required. NAT can
be performed in a number of places such as Firewalls, Load-balances and/or Border Routers. For Internet facing services public
addresses are required, internal facing services may utilize private addressing.

Regardless of where NAT occurs it is important to allocate address space for this and ensure the device performing the address
translation can handle the workload.

Sample addressing schemes are provided in the configuration section of this guide.

Edge Connectivity
To connect the IP Peering Leaf to the Edge Routers, a peering relationship must be established. Like the L3LS, BGP provides the best
functionality and convergence for this application. Whether to use iBGP or eBGP truly depends on the specific requirements and
capabilities of the edge devices. This guide will focus on using eBGP with the IP Peering Leaf. External BGP (eBGP) is primarily used to
connect different autonomous systems and as such lends itself well to this design scenario whereby an IP Peering Leaf, representing
the data centers autonomous system needs to connect to the external or transit providers, which may represent any number of
different autonomous systems.

Depending on the use case and specific design requirements, attention must also be given to how public prefixes will be shared
with the Edge Routers and how access to the Internet will be routed. If this is a requirement, the IP Peering Leaf must be prepared to
accept and redistribute a default route to the spine. Conversely, any private autonomous system numbers (ASN) must be removed
before advertising to upstream providers and transit peers, this can be done in a number of ways and is beyond the scope of this
document.

In addition to providing a general entry and exit point to the traditional network, the IP Peering Leaf may also provide an entry
point to the overlay network. When an overlay network is deployed, traffic is typically encapsulated prior to transiting the spine and
remains encapsulated until it reaches the destination. For overlay traffic that requires connectivity external to the data center, the
traffic must be forwarded to the IP Peering Leaf which can then decapsulate the traffic and forward it to the appropriate destination,
whether that be a firewall or host external to the data center.

Overlay Networks
As mentioned in the introduction to this guide the vast majority of data centers still have Layer 2 dependencies. The modern data
center solution to supporting these Layer 2 dependencies is network virtualization. Network virtualization technologies, or overlay
networks as they are often called, can come in several forms. The Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN) protocol has
become the standard for building overlay networks as it seamlessly supports Layer 2 adjacencies over all routed networks, the L3LS
included.

To create an overlay network via the physical network, networking equipment must support VXLAN bridging and routing
functionality at the hardware level. Hardware based overlays are able to encapsulate and decapsulate traffic destined for the overlay
(VXLAN) networks at wirespeed.

Detailed design and configuration examples for VXLAN and other overlay solutions are outside of the scope of this design guide.
That being said, all overlay models rely heavily on the design of the Layer 3 underlay.

Configuration Examples
This section of the guide is intended to provide configuration examples for all aspects of the Layer 3 Leaf and Spine deployment. It
includes sample configurations as well as steps to verify the configuration where appropriate. The following configuration examples
will be covered;

    • Base Configuration
    • Loopbacks and Management Interfaces




arista.com                                                                                                                           22
                                                                                                                   Design Guide




    • Point-to-Point Links

    • BGP Configuration & Base Routing

    • Route Advertising

    • MLAG Configuration with L3LS (for Dual-Homed Servers)




       Figure 15: Topology for Configuration Examples

For a more thorough explanation of the specific commands found in this guide please see the Arista System Configuration Guide for
the version of EOS you are running. System Configuration Guides can be found on the Arista Support Site at http://www.arista.com/
en/support/product-documentation.

Note: Configuration guidance for spine to IP Peering Leaf connectivity is common with the general leaf configuration examples in
this guide. IP Peering Leaf configuration can be quite variable depending on the external providers in use and is therefore outside of
the scope of this guide. Please refer to the design section of this guide for an over view of Edge Connectivity design considerations.

Base Configuration (All Switches)
Below is a base configuration; hostname, DNS server addresses, Domain name, as well as NTP server information addresses are
required before proceeding.

 ! Spine-1 Example
 !
                                                                                       Notes:
 hostname Spine-1
 ip name-server $DNSHostAddress                                                        The variables below represent
 ip name-server $DNSHostAddress                                                        company specific information.
 ip domain-name $CompanyDomainName                                                     $DNSHostAddress
 !                                                                                     $DNSHostAddress
 ntp source Management1/1                                                              $CompanyDomainName
 ntp server $NTPHostAddress1 prefer                                                    $NTPHostAddress1
 ntp server $NTPHostAddress2                                                           $NTPHostAddress2
 !
                                                                                       •
 username admin role network-admin secret 5 $Password
 !
 clock timezone GMT
 !

Loopbacks and Management Interfaces
Use Table 1 below as a reference to configure the management and loopback interfaces for all spine and leaf switches. The
configurations for Spine-1 are shown below. Note that a VRF is used for management.




arista.com                                                                                                                         23
                                                                                            Design Guide




Figure 16: Loopback and Management Interfaces

! Spine-1 Example                                                        Notes:
!
                                                                         This example is for Spine-01,
vrf definition MGMT
                                                                         see table x for the details
     rd 0:65010
                                                                         for other spines.
!
interface Management1
     vrf forwarding MGMT
     ip address 172.19.0.10/24
!
interface Loopback0
     description Router-ID
     ip address 192.168.0.1/32
!

Table 1: Loopback and Management IP Addressing

Node                            Interface        IP/Mask          Interface          IP/Mask
Spine-1                         Management 1     172.19.0.10/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.1/32
Spine-2                         Management 1     172.19.0.11/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.2/32
Spine-3                         Management 1     172.19.0.12/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.3/32
Spine-4                         Management 1     172.19.0.13/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.4/32
Leaf-1                          Management 1     172.19.0.14/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.5/32
Leaf-2                          Management 1     172.19.0.15/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.6/32
Leaf-3                          Management 1     172.19.0.16/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.7/32
Leaf-4                          Management 1     172.19.0.17/24   Loopback 0         192.168.0.8/32




arista.com                                                                                            24
                                                                                                                        Design Guide




Point-to-Point Links
This section of the configuration will assign the appropriate addresses to the spine and leaf switches so they can reach one another
via IP. Each leaf switch will utilize four 100Gbps interfaces. Each of the four leaf uplinks will connect to a separate spine and each
spine will have a connection to each leaf switch. The 100G interfaces are configured as routed (no switchport) point-to-point
interfaces with logging enabled for changes in link status. The ARP timeout is also set to 900 seconds to ensure stale dynamic ARP
entries are removed from tables.

To identify each point-to-point link a Link # can be used to keep track of the interfaces and addresses, the Link # is not part of the
configuration, just a way to keep track of the links, see Table 2 for details. Use this table as a reference when configuring the links.

Note:

• In the examples the interface speed is forced to 100G full, and the default MTU is 9214.

• Depending on your hardware platform interface names may be different.
 Table 2: Addressing for Spine and Leaf Point-to-Point Links

 Link #     Node                      Interface           IP / Mask         Node                   Interface         IP / Mask
 1          Spine-1                   Ethernet 3/1/1      10.10.0.1/30      Leaf-1                 Ethernet 49       10.10.0.2/30
 2          -                         Ethernet 3/2/1      10.10.0.5/30      Leaf-2                 Ethernet 49       10.10.0.6/30
 3          -                         Ethernet 3/3/1      10.10.0.9/30      Leaf-3                 Ethernet 49       10.10.0.10/30
 4          -                         Ethernet 3/4/1      10.10.0.13/30     Leaf-4                 Ethernet 49       10.10.0.14/30
 5          Spine-2                   Ethernet 3/1/1      10.10.0.17/30     Leaf-1                 Ethernet 50       10.10.0.18/30
 6          -                         Ethernet 3/2/1      10.10.0.21/30     Leaf-2                 Ethernet 50       10.10.0.22/30
 7          -                         Ethernet 3/3/1      10.10.0.25/30     Leaf-3                 Ethernet 50       10.10.0.26/30
 8          -                         Ethernet 3/4/1      10.10.0.29/30     Leaf-4                 Ethernet 50       10.10.0.30/30
 9          Spine-3                   Ethernet 3/1/1      10.10.0.33/30     Leaf-1                 Ethernet 51       10.10.0.34/30
 10         -                         Ethernet 3/2/1      10.10.0.37/30     Leaf-2                 Ethernet 51       10.10.0.38/30
 11         -                         Ethernet 3/3/1      10.10.0.41/30     Leaf-3                 Ethernet 51       10.10.0.42/30
 12         -                         Ethernet 3/4/1      10.10.0.45/30     Leaf-4                 Ethernet 51       10.10.0.46/30
 13         Spine-4                   Ethernet 3/1/1      10.10.0.49/30     Leaf-1                 Ethernet 52       10.10.0.50/30
 14         -                         Ethernet 3/2/1      10.10.0.53/30     Leaf-2                 Ethernet 52       10.10.0.54/30
 15         -                         Ethernet 3/3/1      10.10.0.57/30     Leaf-3                 Ethernet 52       10.10.0.58/30
 16         -                         Ethernet 3/4/1      10.10.0.61/30     Leaf-4                 Ethernet 52       10.10.0.62/30

Spine Switches
Use this example to configure the point-to-point links on the spine and leaf switches. The configuration for Spine-1 is shown in the
example below.




            Figure 17: Configuring Point-to-Point Links




arista.com                                                                                                                                 25
                                                                                                                    Design Guide




 ! Spine-1 Point-to-Point Link Configuration Example                                                   Notes:
 !
                                                                                                       Configuration details
 interface Ethernet3/1/1
                                                                                                       are shown for
    description - P2P Link to Leaf-1
                                                                                                       Spine-1.
    speed forced 100gfull
    logging event link-status                                                                          Configuration is for
    no switchport                                                                                      the Point-to-point
    ip address 10.10.0.1/30                                                                            interfaces that
    arp timeout 900                                                                                    connect Spine-1 to
    no shutdown                                                                                        leaf switches 1,2,3
 !                                                                                                     & 4.
 interface Ethernet3/2/1
    description - P2P Link to Leaf-2
    speed forced 100gfull
    logging event link-status
    no switchport
    ip address 10.10.0.5/30
    arp timeout 900
    no shutdown
 !
 interface Ethernet3/3/1
    description - P2P Link to Leaf-3
    speed forced 100gfull
    logging event link-status
    no switchport
    ip address 10.10.0.9/30
    arp timeout 900
    no shutdown
 !
 interface Ethernet3/4/1
    description - P2P Link to Leaf-4
    speed forced 100gfull
    logging event link-status
    no switchport
    ip address 10.10.0.13/30
    arp timeout 900
    no shutdown
 !

Leaf Switches
Use this example to configure the point-to-point links on the spine and leaf switches. The configuration for Leaf-1 is show in the
example below.




             Figure 18: Configuring point-to-point links on leaf switches




arista.com                                                                                                                           26
                                                           Design Guide




! Leaf-1 Example                             Notes:
!
                                             This example uses the
interface Ethernet49/1
                                             configuration specifics for
  description - P2P Link to SPINE switch-1
                                             Leaf-1.
  speed forced 100gfull
  mtu 9214
  logging event link-status
  no switchport
  ip address 10.10.0.2/30
  arp timeout 900
  no shutdown
!
interface Ethernet50/1
  description - P2P Link to SPINE switch-2
  speed forced 100gfull
  mtu 9214
  logging event link-status
  no switchport
  ip address 10.10.0.18/30
  arp timeout 900
  no shutdown
!
interface Ethernet51/1
  description - P2P Link to SPINE switch-3
  speed forced 100gfull
  mtu 9214
  logging event link-status
  no switchport
  ip address 10.10.0.34/30
  arp timeout 900
  no shutdown
!
interface Ethernet52/1
  description - P2P Link to SPINE switch-4
  speed forced 100gfull
  mtu 9214
  logging event link-status
  no switchport
  ip address 10.10.0.50/30
  arp timeout 900
  no shutdown




arista.com                                                             27
                                                                                                                    Design Guide




Base Routing & BGP Configuration
The diagram below depicts the Autonomous System Numbering scheme that will be used in the configuration examples. Note that
this example uses the Common Spine – Common Leaf AS numbering scheme.




        Figure 19: ASN Number Scheme

Spine Configuration (BGP)
To configure Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) IP Routing must first be enabled on the device. For the spine configurations the default
BGP distance is altered to give preference to external BGP routes. Leaf neighbors are also defined and utilize a peer-group to simplify
configuration.

Perform the following configuration on each spine switch. Note that all spine switches share a common ASN in this example, see
diagram for details. The loopback 0 address will be used as the router-id.

The example below uses static BGP peer groups. A static BGP peer group is a collection of BGP neighbors, which can be configured
as a group. Once a static peer group is created, the group name can be used as a parameter in neighbor configuration commands,
and the configuration will be applied to all members of the group. Neighbors added to the group will inherit any settings already
created for the group. Static peer group members may also be configured individually, and the settings of an individual neighbor in
the peer group override group settings for that neighbor. When the default form of a BGP configuration command is entered for a
member of a static peer group, the peer inherits that configuration from the peer group.




     Figure 20: BGP Spine Configuration




arista.com                                                                                                                          28
                                                                                                                    Design Guide




 ! Spine-1 Example                                                                   Notes:
 !
                                                                                     Spine ASN = 65010
 ip routing
                                                                                     Leaf ASN = 65020
 no ip routing vrf MGMT
 !                                                                                   Leaf-1 = 10.10.0.2
 router bgp 65010                                                                    Leaf-2 = 10.10.0.6
    router-id 192.168.0.1                                                            Leaf-3 = 10.10.0.10
    bgp log-neighbor-changes                                                         Leaf-4 = 10.10.0.14
    distance bgp 20 200 200
    maximum-paths 4 ecmp 64
    neighbor EBGP-TO-LEAF-PEER peer-group
    neighbor EBGP-TO-LEAF-PEER remote-as 65020
    neighbor EBGP-TO-LEAF-PEER maximum-routes 12000
    neighbor 10.10.0.2 peer-group EBGP-TO-LEAF-PEER
    neighbor 10.10.0.6 peer-group EBGP-TO-LEAF-PEER
    neighbor 10.10.0.10 peer-group EBGP-TO-LEAF-PEER
    neighbor 10.10.0.14 peer-group EBGP-TO-LEAF-PEER
    network 192.168.0.1/32
 !

Below is a simplified configuration that does not use peer-groups.

 ! Spine-1 Simple Example                                                            Notes:
 !
                                                                                     Note this is just another example;
 router bgp 65010
                                                                                     there is a single neighbor
    router-id 192.168.0.1
                                                                                     statement for each leaf switch.
    bgp log-neighbor-changes
    distance bgp 20 200 200
    maximum-paths 4 ecmp 64
    maximum-routes 12000
    neighbor 10.10.0.2 remote-as 65020
    neighbor 10.10.0.6 remote-as 65020
    neighbor 10.10.0.10 remote-as 65020
    neighbor 10.10.0.14 remote-as 65020
    network 192.168.0.1/32
 !

Leaf Configuration (BGP)
The leaf switch configuration is very similar to the spine BGP configuration. Routing must be enabled on the device and distance
is again altered to make sure the switch prefers external BGP routes. A single peer-group is utilized to peer with the spine with a
standard configuration. The allowas-in feature is also configured.




                     Figure 21: BGP Leaf Configuration




arista.com                                                                                                                            29
                                                                                                                    Design Guide




 ! Leaf-1 Example                                                                    Notes:
 !
                                                                                     Spine ASN = 65010
 ip routing
                                                                                     Leaf ASN = 65020
 no ip routing vrf MGMT
 !                                                                                   Spine-1=10.10.0.1 -Lnk 1
 router bgp 65020                                                                    Spine-2=10.10.0.17 -Lnk 5
    router-id 192.168.0.5                                                            Spine-3=10.10.0.33 -Lnk 9
    bgp log-neighbor-changes                                                         Spine-4=10.10.0.49 -Lnk 13
    distance bgp 20 200 200
                                                                                     Loopback = 192.168.0.5
    maximum-paths 4 ecmp 4
    neighbor EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER peer-group
    neighbor EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER remote-as 65010
    neighbor EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER allowas-in 1
    neighbor EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER maximum-routes 12000
    neighbor 10.10.0.1 peer-group EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER
    neighbor 10.10.0.17 peer-group EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER
    neighbor 10.10.0.33 peer-group EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER
    neighbor 10.10.0.49 peer-group EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER
    network 192.168.0.5/32
    redistribute connected
 !

Route Advertising (BGP)
To ensure that only the proper routes are advertised from leaf switches, a route map must be applied to the BGP peer. The route map
references the prefix-list which contains the routes that are intended to be advertised to the spine. Inside the BGP configuration, the
route map is applied to the neighbors using the peer-group in the “out” direction. Connected routes are redistributed to the spine
switches to advertise local subnets and interfaces.

Although not mandatory, using a route-map provides a level of protection in the network. Without a route-map random networks
could be created at the leaf, which would automatically be added to the data center’s route table. This configuration should be done
at the leaf switch. A statement for each network requiring routing needs to be added to the prefix-list.

 ! Leaf-1 Example                                                                    Notes:
 !
 route-map ROUTE-MAP-OUT permit 10                                                   Loopback = 192.168.0.5
     match ip address prefix-list PREFIX-LIST-OUT                                    VLAN 200 = 172.20.0.0/24
 !                                                                                   VLAN 300 = 172.30.0.0/24
 ip prefix-list PREFIX-LIST-OUT seq 10 permit 192.168.0.5/32
 ip prefix-list PREFIX-LIST-OUT seq 20 permit 10.10.0.0/16
 ip prefix-list PREFIX-LIST-OUT seq 30 permit 172.20.0.0/24
 ip prefix-list PREFIX-LIST-OUT seq 40 permit 172.30.0.0/24
 !
 router bgp 65020
     redistribute connected
     network 192.168.0.5/32
     neighbor EBGP-TO-SPINE-PEER route-map ROUTE-MAP-OUT out
 !
 end

MLAG Configuration - Dual-Homed Compute Leaf
The Multi-Chassis Link Aggregation Group configuration must be identical on both MLAG peers. The MLAG peer VLAN must be
created and added to the MLAGPEER trunk group. The MLAG peers also must have IP reachability with each other over the peer link.




arista.com                                                                                                                          30
                                                                                                                Design Guide




To ensure forwarding between the peers on the peer link, spanning-tree must also be disabled. Once the port channel is created
for the peer link and configured as a trunk port, additional VLANs may be added if necessary to transit the peer link. The MLAG
configuration consists of four main pieces of information: the MLAG domain must be unique for each MLAG pair, the local interface
for IP reachability (VLAN 4094 in this example) and the physical peer link (Port Channel 48 in this example).




                       Figure 22: MLAG Configuration for Dual-Homed Compute


 ! MLAG Configuration for Leaf-1                                         ! MLAG Configuration for Leaf-2
 !                                                                       !
 interface Port-Channel48                                                interface Port-Channel48
    description - L2 Trunk Link to Leaf-2                                   description - L2 Trunk Link to Leaf-1
    logging event link-status                                               logging event link-status
    switchport trunk allowed vlan 100,200,4094                              switchport trunk allowed vlan 100,200,4094
    switchport mode trunk                                                   switchport mode trunk
    switchport trunk group MLAGPEER                                         switchport trunk group MLAGPEER
    qos trust dscp                                                          qos trust dscp
    no spanning-tree portfast auto                                          no spanning-tree portfast auto
    spanning-tree portfast network                                          spanning-tree portfast network
    no shutdown                                                             no shutdown
 !                                                                       !
 interface Ethernet47                                                    interface Ethernet47
    description -L2 Trunk Link to Leaf-2                                    description -L2 Trunk Link to LEAF switch-1
    mtu 9214                                                                mtu 9214
    no logging event link-status                                            no logging event link-status
    no snmp trap link-status                                                no snmp trap link-status
    channel-group 1 mode active                                             channel-group 1 mode active
    lacp port-priority 16000                                                lacp port-priority 32000
    no shutdown                                                             no shutdown
 !                                                                       !
 interface Ethernet48                                                    interface Ethernet48
    description -L2 Trunk Link to Leaf-2                                    description -L2 Trunk Link to LEAF switch-1
    mtu 9214                                                                mtu 9214
    no logging event link-status                                            no logging event link-status
    switchport mode trunk                                                   switchport mode trunk
    switchport trunk allowed vlans 100,200,4094                             switchport trunk allowed vlans 100,200,4094
    no snmp trap link-status                                                no snmp trap link-status
    channel-group 1 mode active                                             channel-group 1 mode active
    lacp port-priority 16000                                                lacp port-priority 32000
    storm-control broadcast level 1                                         storm-control broadcast level 1
    no shutdown                                                             no shutdown
 !                                                                       !




arista.com                                                                                                                      31
                                                                                                                   Design Guide




 interface Vlan4094                                                 interface Vlan4094
    description InterSwitch_MLAG_PeerLink                              description InterSwitch_MLAG_PeerLink
    mtu 9214                                                           mtu 9214
    ip address 10.0.0.1/30                                             ip address 10.0.0.2/30
    arp timeout 900                                                    arp timeout 900
    no shutdown                                                        no shutdown
 !                                                                  !
 mac address-table aging-time 1200                                  mac address-table aging-time 1200
 !                                                                  !
 ip virtual-router mac-address 00:1c:73:00:00:99                    ip virtual-router mac-address 00:1c:73:00:00:99
 !                                                                  !
 mlag configuration                                                 mlag configuration
    domain-id MLAGPEER                                                 domain-id MLAGPEER
    local-interface Vlan4094                                           local-interface Vlan4094
    peer-address 10.0.0.2                                              peer-address 10.0.0.1
    peer-link Port-Channel1                                            peer-link Port-Channel1
    reload-delay 60                                                    reload-delay 60
 !                                                                  !

IBGP Configuration for the MLAG Configuration
In general a standard MLAG configuration is used with a couple of additions to support eBGP peering to the spine as well as
iBGP peering between the MLAG peers. When integrating an MLAG Leaf configuration into a Layer 3 Leaf Spine, iBGP peering is
recommend between the MLAG peers. The reason for the peering is due to specific failure conditions that the design must take into
consideration. In normal operation paths learned via eBGP (leaf to spine uplinks) will always be preferred over paths learned via iBGP
(given other tie-breaker criteria are equal) this is desirable.

The following configuration will enable iBGP between the MLAG peers. Notice the ASN is that of the peer switch and not the Spine.
The neighbor next-hop-self command configures the switch to list its address as the next hop in routes that it advertises to the
specified BGP-speaking neighbor or neighbors in the specified peer group. This is used in networks where BGP neighbors do not
directly access all other neighbors on the same subnet.

 ! iBGP Configuration for MLAG Leaf-1                               ! iBGP Configuration for MLAG Leaf-2
 !                                                                  !
 router bgp 65020                                                   router bgp 65020
    neighbor 10.0.0.2 remote-as 65020                                  neighbor 10.0.0.1 remote-as 65020
    neighbor 10.0.0.2 next-hop-self                                    neighbor 10.0.0.1 next-hop-self
    neighbor 10.0.0.2 allowas-in 1                                     neighbor 10.0.0.1 allowas-in 1
    neighbor 10.0.0.2 maximum-routes 12000                             neighbor 10.0.0.1 maximum-routes 12000
 !                                                                  !

Server Connectivity (VLANs and Gateways)
General configuration examples for connecting servers into the leaf switches are shown below. A more general-purpose single-
homed compute configuration as well as a dual-homed (active/active) compute configuration is also shown. Note that server level
configuration always needs to be reviewed as well, particularly with dual-homed active/active configurations.

Single-Homed Leaf Configuration
An example of VLAN and Gateway configuration for a single-homed compute leaf is shown below. Notice ports are configured as
access ports and assigned a VLAN. A Switched Virtual Interface (SVI) is created for each VLAN, which acts as the default gateway for
the host/workload. LLDP is also enabled on the switch to support learning of neighbor information.




arista.com                                                                                                                         32
                                                                                                               Design Guide




 ! Leaf-1 Single-Homed Server VLAN Configuration
 !
 lldp run
 !
 vlan 100
    name SERVER-VLAN-172.20.0.0/24
 !
 vlan 200
    name SERVER-VLAN-172.30.0.0/24
 !
 interface Vlan100
    description SVI-FOR-VLAN-100
    mtu 9214
    ip address 172.20.0.1/24
    arp timeout 900
    no shutdown
 !
 interface Vlan200
    description SVI-FOR-VLAN-200
    ip address 172.30.0.1/24
    arp timeout 900
    no shutdown
 !
 interface Ethernet 21
    switchport access vlan 100
    no snmp trap link-status
    storm-control broadcast level 1
    spanning-tree portfast
    spanning-tree bpduguard enable
    no shutdown
 !
 interface Ethernet 22
    switchport access vlan 200
    no snmp trap link-status
    storm-control broadcast level 1
    spanning-tree portfast
    spanning-tree bpduguard enable
    no shutdown
 !

Dual-Homed Leaf Configuration
Below is the VLAN and port configuration for Leaf-1 and Leaf-2. Note that Leaf-1 and Leaf-2 are MLAG peers and will share a common
configuration. Default gateway configuration uses the system VARP address. Both access and trunk port configurations are show.
LLDP configuration is also shown in this example.




                                        Figure 23: Dual-Homed Leaf Configuration for Server Connectivity




arista.com                                                                                                                     33
                                                                                   Design Guide




! Leaf-1 Server VLAN Configuration           ! Leaf-2 Server VLAN Configuration
!                                            !
lldp run                                     lldp run
!                                            !
vlan 100                                     vlan 100
   name SERVER-VLAN-172.20.0.0/24               name SERVER-VLAN-172.20.0.0/24
!                                            !
vlan 200                                     vlan 200
   name SERVER-VLAN-172.30.0.0/24               name SERVER-VLAN-172.30.0.0/24
!                                            !
interface Vlan100                            interface Vlan100
   description SVI-FOR-VLAN-100                 description SVI-FOR-VLAN-100
   mtu 9214                                     mtu 9214
   ip address 172.20.0.2/24                     ip address 172.20.0.3/24
   ip virtual-router address 172.20.0.1/24      ip virtual-router address 172.20.0.1/24
   arp timeout 900                              arp timeout 900
   no shutdown                                  no shutdown
!                                            !
interface Vlan200                            interface Vlan200
   description SVI-FOR-VLAN-200                 description SVI-FOR-VLAN-200
   ip address 172.30.0.2/24                     ip address 172.30.0.3/24
   ip virtual-router address 172.30.0.1/24      ip virtual-router address 172.30.0.1/24
   arp timeout 900                              arp timeout 900
   no shutdown                                  no shutdown
!                                            !
interface Port-Channel1                      interface Port-Channel1
   switchport access vlan 100                   switchport access vlan 100
   no snmp trap link-status                     no snmp trap link-status
   port-channel lacp fallback static            port-channel lacp fallback static
   mlag 1                                       mlag 1
   storm-control broadcast level 1              storm-control broadcast level 1
   spanning-tree portfast                       spanning-tree portfast
   spanning-tree bpduguard enable               spanning-tree bpduguard enable
   no shutdown                                  no shutdown
!                                            !
interface Ethernet 1                         interface Ethernet1
   description MLAG-To-Server                   description MLAG-To-Server
   channel-group 1 mode active                  channel-group 1 mode active
   no shutdown                                  no shutdown
!                                            !
interface Port-Channel2                      interface Port-Channel2
   switchport access vlan 200                   switchport access vlan 200
   no snmp trap link-status                     no snmp trap link-status
   port-channel lacp fallback static            port-channel lacp fallback static
   mlag 2                                       mlag 2
   storm-control broadcast level 1              storm-control broadcast level 1
   spanning-tree portfast                       spanning-tree portfast
   spanning-tree bpduguard enable               spanning-tree bpduguard enable
   no shutdown                                  no shutdown
!                                            !
interface Ethernet 2                         interface Ethernet 2
   description MLAG-To-Server                   description MLAG-To-Server
   channel-group 2 mode active                  channel-group 2 mode active
   no shutdown                                  no shutdown
!                                            !




arista.com                                                                                   34
                                                                                                                                                       Design Guide




List of Acronyms
AS - Autonomous System

ASN - Autonomous System Number

BFD - Bidirectional Forwarding Detection BGP - Border Gateway Protocol

eBGP - External Border Gateway Protocol ECMP - Equal Cost Multi-Path

EGP - Exterior Gateway Protocol

iBGP - Internal Border Gateway Protocol IETF - Internet Engineering Task Force

L2 - Layer 2

L3 - Layer 3

MLAG - Multi-chassis Link Aggregation RFC - Request for Comment

RIB - Routing Information Base

VARP - Virtual Address Resolution Protocol VXLAN - Virtual eXtensible LAN



References
“A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)”, https://tools.ietf.org/pdf/rfc4271.pdf

“Use of BGP for routing in large-scale data centers”, https://tools.ietf.org/pdf/draft-ietf-rtgwg-bgp-routing-large-dc-07.pdf




Santa Clara—Corporate Headquarters               Ireland—International Headquarters                                  India—R&D Office
                                                 3130 Atlantic Avenue                                                Global Tech Park, Tower A & B, 11th Floor
5453 Great America Parkway,
                                                 Westpark Business Campus                                            Marathahalli Outer Ring Road
Santa Clara, CA 95054                            Shannon, Co. Clare                                                  Devarabeesanahalli Village, Varthur Hobli
                                                 Ireland                                                             Bangalore, India 560103
Phone: +1-408-547-5500
                                                 Vancouver—R&D Office                                                Singapore—APAC Administrative Office
Fax: +1-408-538-8920
                                                 9200 Glenlyon Pkwy, Unit 300                                        9 Temasek Boulevard
Email: info@arista.com                           Burnaby, British Columbia                                           #29-01, Suntec Tower Two
                                                 Canada V5J 5J8                                                      Singapore 038989
                                                 San Francisco—R&D and Sales Office                                  Nashua—R&D Office
                                                 1390 Market Street, Suite 800                                       10 Tara Boulevard
                                                 San Francisco, CA 94102                                             Nashua, NH 03062




                                                 Copyright © 2016 Arista Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. CloudVision, and EOS are registered trademarks and Arista Networks
                                                 is a trademark of Arista Networks, Inc. All other company names are trademarks of their respective holders. Information in this
                                                 document is subject to change without notice. Certain features may not yet be available. Arista Networks, Inc. assumes no
                                                 responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. 04/16 Version 1.1




arista.com                                                                                                                                                                         35
