VXLAN Introduction
  Virtualization in Networks

     Akhilesh TK, Jainam Parikh



                        recommended to be run in the slideshow mode
Agenda
• What is Virtualization? Why do we need it?
• What is LAN?
• Underlay - Overlay Discussion
• Introduction to VXLAN
• Packet Format
• Terminologies
• Packet Walkthrough
• Operating Modes
• Head End Replication (HER)
• Basic Configuration
• Platform Support for VXLAN
                                   Arista Confidential   2
What is Virtualization?
Virtualization is the process of giving a “system” a property it does not have.

Example: VLAN, a logical overlay, is virtualizing the concept of LAN:
• By giving it the ability to house multiple networks and segregate them!
• Groups together a subset of devices that share a physical LAN.


Now, does virtualization simplify operations?
It may be true for one hat and
completely false for another.

“You cannot have a pie and eat it at the same time”
                                                                              imgflip.com


                                     Arista Confidential                                3
Why do we need it in networks? (RFC 7364)
We need VIRTUALIZATION in networks to:
1. Allow services move around the data center, and the right
   resources must follow to keep everything running smoothly.
2. Enable VMs to move between servers and DCs (0 downtime),
   with IP/MAC addresses intact, and without subnet limits.
3. Allow tenants need to use any addresses they want in their
   networks, even if other tenants use the same ones.
4. Allow tenants need to use any addresses they want in their
   networks, even if the underlying DCN use the same ones.
5. Enable tenant identification.

                         Arista Confidential                4
            question for you: What is LAN?
                    a broadcast domain.

Historically, a broadcast domain has always been physically bound to
a location.

But what if a company like,          , wants to use the same IP pool
10.0.0.0/8 in Europe and the USA? i.e. extend the broadcast domain,
aka LAN?


                             Arista Confidential                       5
the answer is VLAN with an X. (you all are here
                to learn it lol.)
   But, before we learn it, let’s have a small
                  discussion:


 (request you to run slideshow mode for the next slide, it’s a small
                            animation)

                            Arista Confidential                        6
                                          this is
                                          optional


(                     (
    ✈ Source: SJC (77) ✉(7)Source: 5453 Great America Parkway, 95054, CA, USA
  Destination: DUB                Destination: 2 George’s Dock, IFSC, Dublin 1, Ireland               ))
                           Used for (tenant) identification
                                                                                         Post Office N/W is Overlay
                                                                                           Airport N/W is Underlay
                                                     Source: SJC


                          77
                             7
                             ✉                          ✈
                                              Destination: DUB
                                                                                77
                                                                                     7
                                                                                     ✉
              7                                                                                   7
    TAC-7
            ✉                                                                                    ✉          TAC-7

 🕴
🕴
TEST-20
          🏢                      🛫                                         🛬                      🏢        🕴🕴
                                                                                                               TEST-20

       5453 Great                   SJC                                    DUB                   2 George's
      America Pkwy
                                   🇺🇸
                                    77:7
                                                                           🇮🇪
                                                                            77:7
                                                                                                 Dock, IFSC

                                   2020:20           Arista Confidential   2020:20                                  7
Underlay/Overlay Networks:
UN: An underlay network is the physical infrastructure, including switches and
routers, that supports the virtual network by transporting data packets between
devices. (synonymous to the airport network we just saw)
 • Underlay Networks can be: BGP (i/e), OSPF, RIP, ISIS or even static routing, etc.
 • The overlay network will be dependent on this Underlay Network for
    operations.

ON: An overlay network is a virtual network of nodes and links built on top of an
existing network, allowing new services without reconfiguring the entire design.
(synonymous to the post-office network we just saw)
 • Overlay Networks can be: L2TP, VXLAN, NVGRE, VPLS, MPLS, etc.
 • We will be looking into VXLAN.

                                    Arista Confidential                            8
                  8]
               734
          FC
        [R
   AN
 XL
V




                   Arista Confidential   9
Introduction to VXLAN (contd.)
• Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (that’s how the RFC spells it ☺)
• VXLAN is a Layer 2 overlay scheme on a Layer 3 underlay network.
• Each overlay is termed a VXLAN segment.
• Only VMs within the same VXLAN VLAN can communicate with each other.
• Each VXLAN segment is identified through a 24-bit segment ID, termed the
  "VXLAN Network Identifier (VNI)".
• This allows up to 16 M VXLAN segments to coexist within the same
  administrative domain.
• Independent STP domains across sites.



                                    Arista Confidential                    10
Packet Format
                                                                  VXLAN adds:
                                                                   ● Outer L2 Header
                                                                   ● Outer L3 Header
                                                                   ● UDP Header
                                                                   ● VXLAN Header




                                                          https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/vmware-nsx-
                                      cookbook/9781782174257/7d2a65f0-fadc-4bb9-a507-b25db0886e51.xhtml

                Arista Confidential                                                                     11
Actual Packet




                Arista Confidential   12
Terminologies:
•   Virtual Network Identifier (VNI) (or VXLAN Segment ID)
    A 24-bit number that distinguishes between the VLANs carried on a VTI (via a UDP
    socket)
    It is used to multiplex multiple VLANs over a single VTI (UDP socket)
    24-bit VNI = 224 = 16777216 = 16 Million IDs
•   VXLAN Segment (VLAN 7 or 20 in the discussion)
    A network-wide layer-2 domain implemented as an overlay network of VTEPs
    interconnected using VXLAN Tunnel Interfaces




                               https://slideplayer.com/slide/10617757/#google_vignette

                                          Arista Confidential                            13
Terminologies (contd.):
•   VXLAN Tunnel Interface (VTI)
    Switchport linked to a UDP socket that can be shared between many VLANs
    When packets are transmitted over a VTI, packets are encapsulated in VXLAN
    header.
    Packets arriving on the VTI (via the UDP socket, based on their UDP destination
    port) are demultiplexed into a VLAN for bridging.
    A 24-bit VNI within the packet determines which VLAN the packet is mapped to for
    bridging.
•   Virtual Tunnel Endpoint (VTEP)
    An entity that originates and/or terminates VXLAN tunnels and and forwards traffic
    on them.
    A VTEP is what uses the VTI to initiate and establish a VXLAN tunnel.

                                     Arista Confidential                             14
Components of the VXLAN packet:
• UDP Port:
   ○ IANA assigned 4789 as the VXLAN UDP port, but it can be changed via CLI.
   ○ UDP source port number is calculated using a hash of fields from the inner
      packet.
• VTEP IP:
   ○ VTEP IP is the IP address of either the source and destination of the virtual
      tunnel.
   ○ This IP is used as the SRC/DST IP in the outer L3 header based on the floodlist.
• VNI ID:
   ○ A 24-bit VNI ID is what is used to identify the L2 segment.
   ○ An egress VTEP uses this VNI to correctly identify the L2 segment of the
      packet, i.e. what VLAN should the packet be delivered to.

                    (IANA manages global IP address allocation, autonomous system numbers, and the root zone of the DNS.)

                                            Arista Confidential                                                       15
                                Click here to access the actual PCAPs:
                      (i) naked-icmp-T1H1.pcap     (iii) encaped-icmp-L2.pcap
                      (ii) encaped-icmp-L1.cpap    (iv) naked-icmp-T1H3.pcap




Arista Confidential

                                                                                VXLAN Packet Walkthrough: (Exercise):




16
Walkthrough: How does it work? (encap):
T1H1 pings T1H3:
1. MAP: The first-hop VTEP, L1, maps where the encapsulated packet should be
   sent to reach its intended destination; VLAN (7) to VNI (77) mapping, remote
   VTEP IP (2.2.2.2)
2. ENCAP: Original packet is encapsulated by the first-hop ingress network device,
   called the VTEP & Prepends a VXLAN header to the packet (including the VNI)
3. FORWARD: The packet is forwarded by the underlay (i.e., the IP network) based
   entirely on its outer address, to a remote egress VTEP.
   Picks a source UDP port based on the hash of the inner MAC header
4. Then at the egress VTEP, L2, the packet is decapsulated and then sent to the
   destination.
The packet based on the encapsulation header and can be oblivious to the
payload that is carried inside. (remember this)
                                   Arista Confidential                           17
Walkthrough: How does it work? (decap):
Idea behind the decap in overlays is very simple:
 1. DECAP: If the outer destination IP (2.2.2.2) and MAC (DD) matches the last-hop
    overlay device remembers the VNI (77) of the received encap’d packet (in the
    VXLAN header) and decapsulates it.
 2. MAP: Original packet is decapsulated by the last-hop egress VTEP, L2.
    Lookup the VLAN tag (if present) or the VNI (77) of the packet in the VNI-to-
    VLAN map, finds it to be mapped to VLAN 7.
 3. FORWARD: The packet is forwarded to the end host based on the MAC address
    table and VLAN (7) broadcast domain.


The packet based on the encapsulation header and can be oblivious to the
payload that is carried inside. (remember this)

                                   Arista Confidential                          18
Arista Confidential   19
Bridging vs Routing:
Two ways of implementing VXLAN based on use-case:
• Bridging:
   – End hosts communicating are on the same subnet,
   – No gateway required on the VTEP.
   – Basic VXLAN, enables stretching Layer 2 domains over an L3
      underlay.
• Routing:
   – End hosts communicating are on different subnets,
   – A gateway is required on the VTEPs (all or some) (Direct or Indirect).
   – Capability to route between these Layer 2 domains over an L3
     underlay.
                                Arista Confidential                      20
VXLAN Operating Modes
•   For VXLAN, the approach specified in the RFC is based on IP multicast.
•   This approach means that the underlying IP network used to transport
    VXLAN encapsulated traffic must support IP multicast.
•   Other modes can be Flood Proxy Mode or HER (more of it on next slide).
•   HER is the preferred operating mode in Arista devices.




                                  Arista Confidential                        21
VXLAN Operating Modes (Head End Replication, HER):
•   Arista has introduced a feature referred to as “Head End Replication” (HER):
    – HER takes the incoming broadcast, multicast, and unknown unicast traffic
      (BUM) and sends an individual unicast copy to each of the VTEPs receiving
      traffic for a given VNI.
•   HER is one of the operating modes of VXLAN.
•   In this mode, the ingress (source) VTEP encapsulates the frame and then
    replicates the frame to each VXLAN tunnel in the network.
•   In order to transparently support layer-2 traffic, each VTEP must handle the
    forwarding of broadcast and multicast traffic as well as ensure previously
    “unseen” MAC addresses and their “locations” are learned.
•   HER is done in hardware.
                                    Arista Confidential                            22
https://blog.sdn.clinic/2017/09/specifics-and-history-of-a-freifunk-network/


                        Arista Confidential                                    23
VXLAN Basic Configuration for EOS:
                                 Source-interface can only be a loopback interface




interface vxlan1                        VXLAN traffic is carried over UDP port 4789

    vxlan source-interface loopback <lo-int>
    vxlan udp-port 4789                 One-to-one mapping between vlan and vni

    vxlan vlan <vlan-id> vni <vni-id>
    vxlan flood vtep <remote-vtep-ip> <remote-vtep-ip>

                                       To encapsulate BUM traffic and replicate to remote VTEPs


                                   Arista Confidential                                       24
Arista Confidential   25
Thank you!




             Arista Confidential   26
References:
• https://www.arista.com/assets/data/pdf/TechBulletins/VXLAN_Overvie
  w.pdf
• https://www.arista.com/en/um-eos/eos-vxlan-introduction
• https://www.arista.com/assets/data/pdf/Whitepapers/VXLAN_Scaling_
  Data_Center_Designs.pdf
• https://www.theregister.com/2011/08/30/vmware_cisco_vxlan_spec/




                             Arista Confidential                   27
